chore: updating the noirjs tutorial to match stable + some other improvements (#3929)
noir-lang/noir: docs/docs/tutorials/noirjs_app.md

---
title: Building a web app with NoirJS
description: Learn how to setup a new app that uses Noir to generate and verify zero-knowledge SNARK proofs in a typescript or javascript environment.
keywords: [how to, guide, javascript, typescript, noir, barretenberg, zero-knowledge, proofs, app]
sidebar_position: 0
---

NoirJS is a set of packages meant to work both in a browser and a server environment. In this tutorial, we will build a simple web app using them. From here, you should get an idea on how to proceed with your own Noir projects!

> You can find the complete app code for this guide [here](https://github.com/noir-lang/tiny-noirjs-app).

Reviewer: Looks like the code here needs to updated as well.

Author: Yep it's ready but I want to push it only when this hits stable...

Reviewer: Isn't 0.19 stable? the tiny-noirjs-app repo is using 0.17

Author: Sorry I mean when this tutorial hits the stable version of the docs 😂 otherwise people would look at the old tutorial which wouldn't match with the version on the repo

## Setup

:::note

Feel free to use whatever versions, just keep in mind that Nargo and the NoirJS packages are meant to be in sync. For example, Nargo 0.19.x matches `noir_js@0.19.x`, etc.

In this guide, we will be pinned to 0.19.4.

:::

Before we start, we want to make sure we have Node and Nargo installed.

We start by opening a terminal and executing `node --version`. If we don't get an output like `v20.10.0`, that means node is not installed. Let's do that by following the handy [nvm guide](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm?tab=readme-ov-file#install--update-script).

As for `Nargo`, we can follow the the [Nargo guide](../getting_started/installation/index.md) to install it. If you're lazy, just run this on a terminal:

```sh

> curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/noir-lang/noirup/main/install | bash

Reviewer: we need to run `noirup` after installing this right?

```

## Our project

ZK is a powerful technology. An app that doesn't reveal one of the inputs to *anyone* is almost unbelievable, yet Noir makes it as easy as a single line of code.

In fact, it's so simple that it comes nicely packaged in `nargo`. Let's do that!

### Nargo

> Run `nargo new circuit`.

Reviewer: Run:

```
nargo new circuit
```

And... That's about it. Your program is ready to be compiled and run.

> To compile, let's `cd` into the `circuit` folder to enter our project, and call `nargo compile`. This compiles our circuit into `json` format and add it to a new `target` folder.

Reviewer: Maybe put `nargo compile` onto a new line as well. I like when commands are on their own lines so that its more obvious and it comes with the copy button

```
nargo compile
```

:::info

At this point in the tutorial, your folder structure should look like this:

```tree
.
└── circuit <---- our working directory
    ├── Nargo.toml
    ├── src
    │   └── main.nr
    └── target
        └── circuit.json
```

:::

### Node and Vite

> If you want to explore Nargo, feel free to go on a side-quest now and follow the steps in the [getting started](../getting_started/create_a_project.md) guide. However, we want our app to run on the browser, so we need Vite.

Reviewer: This makes it sounds like you need Vite to run a Noir project in the browser, which technically isn't true. Consider updating to something like this:

```suggestion
If you want to explore Nargo, feel free to go on a side-quest now and follow the steps in the [getting started](../getting_started/create_a_project.md) guide. However, we want our app to run on the browser, so we can use Vite. Feel free to use [other frameworks](https://github.com/noir-lang/awesome-noir?tab=readme-ov-file#boilerplates).
```
